# WhatsApp One-Time Password (OTP) Sample Application

## Set-up
You'll need the following to setup the OTP sample application:
1. A WhatsApp Business Account (WABA) with an associated address in Meta Business
Manager
2. A System User access token with `whatsapp_business_management` and
`whatsapp_business_messaging` permissions. The System User must also be added to
your WABA.
3. A phone number associated with your WABA

For #3 it is recommended that you use a test phone number generated by
WhatsApp to send messages free of charge. If you already have all this
information, you can skip the following:

1. Follow [the instructions here](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started/#set-up-developer-assets)
to get started.
2. At the end of the above, in the "WhatsApp -> Getting started" tab of the
App Dashboard, you'll see your WhatsApp Business Account ID and the test
phone number.
3. To send messages using your test phone number, you'll need add
any recipient phone numbers via the "To" field on this page.
4. Now, you'll need to add a new system user. Do so by following
[this FAQ](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/503306463479099?id=2190812977867143).
5. Once you've added a System User, on
[the System Users page](https://business.facebook.com/settings/system-users/),
select the user, click "Add assets". Select the "Apps" tab, the app you
created in Step 1, and select the "Manage app" control on the right and then
"Save Changes".
6. On the same System Users page as before, select the user and click
"Generate new token". Select the app you created in Step 1 and give it
`whatsapp_business_management` and `whatsapp_business_messaging` permissions
via the checkboxes. Copy the token to a safe place, you'll need it.
7. On the [WhatsApp Accounts](https://business.facebook.com/settings/whatsapp-business-accounts/1)
page, click the "Add people" button, and give the System User "Manage phone
numbers and message templates" permission.
8. Go to [Business Settings](https://business.facebook.com/settings/info) and
add your business address. Note that authentication templates are not available
in all regions at present.

Once you have the three required pieces of information, it's time to run the
setup script. This creates the OTP template for you and queries some
information needed by the sample server:

1. Install Python3 (https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. Navigate to the `setup` directory (run `cd setup/` in Terminal).
3. While in the `setup` directory, run `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.
This installs the dependencies for the setup script.
4. While in the `setup` directory, run `python3 setup.py`. At the end of
script execution, you should see a `whatsapp-info.json` file in the `setup`
directory. This is needed for the sample server to run.

> NOTE: If you get a `ModuleNotFoundError` when running the script, run
`pip3 --version`. If you get for example `(python 3.8)`, try running the
script with `python3.8 setup.py` instead as that Python installation is
where the packages are.

## Running the sample server
1. Install NodeJS (https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
2. Navigate to the server directory (run `cd server/` in Terminal).
3. While in the `server` directory, run `npm install`. This installs the
dependencies for the sample server.
4. While in the `server` directory, run `node app.js`. If you've followed the
directions so far, you should see something like:

        username@hostname server % node app.js
        Verified OTP template XXXX is approved and ready to send.
        Sample app listening on port 3000

Now your sample server is ready to receive authentication requests!

The sample server outputs some helpful logs to the console after each API
call, namely the timestamp, the server response code & message, and all OTP
codes and expiration times.

    Current time:  2022-12-07T05:17:41.200Z
    OTP requested for phone # XXXX
    Response (200): OK
    Active codes state:
    ┌─────────────┬─────────┬──────────────────────────┐
    │   (index)   │  code   │   expirationTimestamp    │
    ├─────────────┼─────────┼──────────────────────────┤
    │    XXXX     │ '19912' │ 2022-12-07T05:22:41.201Z │
    └─────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────────────┘

## Interacting with the server
The sample Android and iOS clients we have released are already integrated
with the sample server. But if you wish to test your own client with the
sample server, there are two REST API calls you can make.

### Send OTP: `GET http://127.0.0.1:3000/otp/:phone_number/`
Where `:phone_number` is the phone number that should receive the OTP.

#### Responses
| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200  | OK          |

#### Example `curl` command
`curl -X GET HTTP://127.0.0.1:3000/otp/:phone_number/`

### Verify OTP: `POST http://127.0.0.1:3000/otp/:phone_number/`
Where `:phone_number` is the phone number the OTP was sent to.

#### Body
    "code": string

#### Responses
| Code          | Message |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| 200           | OK          |
| 404           | No active code for phone # `:phone_number`     |
| 400           | No code provided. |
| 401 (case 1)  | Code has expired, please request another. |
| 401 (case 2)  | Incorrect code. |

#### Example `curl` command
`curl -X POST HTTP://127.0.0.1:3000/otp/:phone_number/ -d '{"code": "<code>"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"`
